{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Feature - Command Line\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Command Line\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Usage\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \f1 JocysCom.VS.AiCompanion.App.exe [OPTIONS]\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Options\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 /Exit}\line Close all running instances of the application that are using the same settings folder.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 /SettingsPath=FILE\line Overrides the location of the zip file where default settings are stored. Default: uses embedded settings.\line Example: {\f1 /SettingsPath="C:\\Custom\\Path\\Settings\\Default.Settings.zip"}\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 /SettingsPath=PATH}\line Overrides the default settings folder path. Example: {\f1 /SettingsPath="C:\\Custom\\Path\\Settings"}\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 /WindowState=STATE}\line Determine the initial window state of the application.\line Options: {\f1 Maximized}, {\f1 Minimized}, {\f1 Normal}\line Example: {\f1 /WindowState=Maximized}\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 /ResetAllSettings} Resets all settings before starting, including templates, tasks, lists, and more.\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 /ReplaceFiles}\line Replaces existing application files with new versions. Used during the update process. {\b Arguments}:\line - {\f1 /exeFile=PATH} - Path to the current executable. - {\f1 /bakFile=PATH} - Path to the backup file for the current executable. - {\f1 /newFile=PATH} - Path to the new file that will replace the current executable.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Example: {\f1 /ReplaceFiles /bakFile="app.backup.exe" /newFile="app.new.exe" /exeFile="app.exe"}\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\emdash\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 /RestartApp}\line Close all applications with the same name and start a new one. Used by the update process. {\b Arguments}:\line - {\f1 /exeFile=PATH} - Path to the executable.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Example: {\f1 /RestartApp /exeFile="JocysCom.VS.AiCompanion.App.exe"}\par}
}
