{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Feature \u8208 ? AI Avatar\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Getting a Free Viseme Subscription Key and Service Region\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Yes, you can start with a free version of the Azure Cognitive Services Speech service, which includes speech-to-text, text-to-speech, speech translation, and speaker recognition features. Here\u8217's how to get started with the free version and obtain your subscription key and service region:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Sign Up for Azure\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab If you haven\u8217't already, sign up for a {\b free Azure account} at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Azure Free Account
}}}
. Azure provides new sign-ups with a range of free services and a credit you can use within the first 30 days.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Create a Speech Service Resource\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Once logged in to the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://portal.azure.com/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Azure Portal
}}}
, click on {\b \u8220"Create a resource\u8221"}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Search for and select the {\b \u8220"Speech\u8221"} service.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Click {\b \u8220"Create\u8221"}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab During setup, for the {\b pricing tier}, select the {\b F0} (free) option, which allows a certain number of transactions per month at no cost. Note that the availability of the free tier might vary by region, and there are limits on how many free resources you can have in your account.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab Complete the required fields such as subscription, resource group creation (you can create a new one or select an existing), region (choose a region that is geographically close to you or your users for better performance), and the resource name.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 7.\tx360\tab Review and confirm by clicking {\b \u8220"Review + create\u8221"}, then {\b \u8220"Create\u8221"}.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Retrieve Your Subscription Key and Service Region\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 8.\tx360\tab After the resource is deployed, go to it by clicking on {\b \u8220"Go to resource\u8221"}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 9.\tx360\tab Under the {\b Resource Management} section, click on {\b \u8220"Keys and Endpoint\u8221"}. Here, you\u8217'll find two keys provided; you can use either {\b Key 1} or {\b Key 2} in your applications.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 10.\tx360\tab You will also see the {\b Endpoint} URL; the region is the part of this URL immediately following {\f1 https://}. For example, if your endpoint URL is {\f1 https://westus.api.cognitive.microsoft.com/}, then your service region is {\f1 westus}.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Enable Low Risk Plugin\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 11.\tx360\tab Plugins \u9658 ? Multimedia \u9658 ? [checked] AISPeak.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 12.\tx360\tab Tasks \u9658 ? [checked] Use Low Risk Plugins.\sa180\par}
}
