{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Installation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Installation Instructions for VS AI Companion\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Welcome to VS AI Companion, your AI-powered assistant for Microsoft Visual Studio. This page will guide you through the installation process of the VS AI Companion extension for Visual Studio 2022.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Prerequisites\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Before installing the extension, ensure that you have the following prerequisites met: - Visual Studio 2022 (version 17.9 or higher) - Microsoft .NET 8.0 SDK or higher\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Installation Steps\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Open Microsoft Visual Studio 2022.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Navigate to the {\b Extensions} menu, then select {\b Manage Extensions}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab In the Extensions and Updates dialog, select {\b Online} on the left-hand side, and then search for \u8220"VS AI Companion.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Find the VS AI Companion extension in the list and click {\b Download} to begin the installation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Once the download is complete, Visual Studio may prompt you to close it in order to install the extension. Save any work, and then close Visual Studio to proceed with the installation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab The Visual Studio Installer will launch. Follow the prompts to install the extension.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 7.\tx360\tab After the installation is complete, restart Visual Studio. You should now see the VS AI Companion extension installed and ready for use.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Confirming Installation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To confirm that the installation was successful, you should see the VS AI Companion option in the {\b View} menu or a related toolbar icon depending on how the extension is integrated into the IDE.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Troubleshooting\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you encounter any issues during the installation process, please consult the FAQs and Troubleshooting section of this wiki or contact support via the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/JocysCom/VsAiCompanion/issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
GitHub Issue Tracker
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Thank you for choosing VS AI Companion, and happy coding!\par}
}
