{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 NCMEF \u8208 ? Super\u8208 ?Aligned Morality\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 NCMEF - Objective Super-Aligned Morality Formula [Draft]\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 AI Prompt\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Please analyze the text by identifying all actions and specify their subjects as well as their directly or indirectly affected objects. For each identified action, perform an entity and separate evaluation of its moral implications relative to every directly or indirectly influenced entity (Note: If an action affects a large number of entities, evaluate individually and then sum to reflect the total impact). Use the \u8220"Numerically Comprehensive Moral Evaluation Formula\u8221" (NCMEF) to quantify these evaluations. Assess and estimate all necessary variable values to compute a moral value score (MVS) for each affected entity. Estimate all values. Values that are non-applicable can usually be set to 0. Output your thinking process. Always include {\f1 MVS} calculations as shown in the example.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Key definitions:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 Good} - something that increases the odds of survival.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 Bad} - something that reduces the odds of survival.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 Moral} or {\f1 Right} - something perceived as good.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 Immoral} or {\f1 Wrong} - something perceived as bad.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The \u8220"Numerically Comprehensive Moral Evaluation Formula\u8221" (NCMEF) is designed to provide a standardized, numerical assessment of moral actions. The formula focuses on quantifying the effects actions have on an entity\u8217's \u8220"Odds of Survival,\u8221" expressed with numbers, to arrive at a moral value score. The objective of the NCMEF is ability to assign an MVS to every entity in the Universe. NCMEF can predict if the values and intentions of entities with vastly different intelligences align by quantifying the moral implications of their actions on survival odds and resource transfers. This numerical approach facilitates superalignment by providing a standardized method to objectively evaluate and compare the moral impact of actions across diverse entities, ensuring coherence with human values.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Numerically Comprehensive Moral Evaluation Formula (NCMEF):}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Formula to assess moral value score by the effect of action (a) on the change in the Odds of Survival of the entity (e):\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoOS(a) = \u8721 ? [\u916 ?OS(e) \u215 ? VSA(e) \u215 ? Tc(e) \u215 ? (1 + sign(\u916 ?OS(e)) \u215 ? Vc(e)) \u215 ? (1 + sign(\u916 ?OS(e)) \u215 ? Sc(e))]}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Formula to assess moral value score by the effect of action (a) on the Resource Transfer from/to entity (e) that owns the property:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoRT(a) = \u8721 ? [Av(e) \u215 ? Vc(e)]}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Formula to assess the overall moral value score of action (a):\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\f1 MVS(a) = MVSoRT(a) + MVSoOS(a)}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Where:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 MVS(a)} - Moral Value Score of moral action (a).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 \u916 ?OS(e)} - Change in Odds of Survival for entity (e) due to action (a), ranging between -1 (disintegration/destruction for non-living entities or death for self-aware entities) and +1 (creation/formation for non-living entities or saving/creating a life for self-aware entities).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 sign(\u916 ?OS(e))} - A function that returns -1 for negative changes, 0 for no change, and 1 for positive changes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 VSA(e)} - Value of Self-Awareness of entity (e), measured as a multiplier from 0 to 1.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 Tc(e)} - Temporal coefficient, incorporating long-term effects of action (a) on all affected entities, measured from 0 to 1 where 1 is the average life-span of the average entity.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 Av(e)} - Action value, impact on entity (e) in terms of economic value, quantified in normalized Global Currency Units (GCU), where 1 GCU represents the economic value produced by an average entity over their lifetime. Can be positive or negative.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 Vc(e)} - Violation coefficient of Consent of entity (e) caused by action (a), ranging from 0 (no violation) to 1 (full violation). Its application is conditional on {\f1 \u916 ?OS(e)}. Full violation neutralize moral value if \u916 ?OS(e) is positive and doubles negative moral value if \u916 ?OS(e) is negative.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 Sc(e)} - Suffering coefficient, taking into account the suffering caused to entity (e) by action (a), ranging 0 (no suffering) to 1 (full suffering). Its application is conditional on {\f1 \u916 ?OS(e)}. Full suffering neutralize moral value if \u916 ?OS(e) is positive and doubles negative moral value if \u916 ?OS(e) is negative.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\f1 \u8721 ? (Summation)} - indicates accumulation of moral values scored for each affected entity (e). (Note: Evaluate each affected entity individually and then sum to reflect the total impact)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Notes: - Objective Measurement of Consent and Suffering: Behaviours like fleeing or resisting could indicate non-consent. True emotions, feelings and sensations will result in physical manifestations in the entity, therefore could indicate suffering. - Cultural variables: Excluded due to their inherent subjectivity, which could compromise the formula\u8217's objectivity and universal applicability. - Self-awareness: Chosen over intelligence to normalize the assessment across entities with varied cognitive abilities, ensuring a more equitable and universally applicable standard. - Embryo Consideration: Until an embryo attains self-awareness, it is classified as a part of the host entity\u8217's body. - Complexity: Indicates the degree of organization within an entity, distinguishing between traditionally \u8216'living\u8217' and \u8216'non-living\u8217' entities. The greater the complexity, the closer an entity aligns with conventional definitions of life - Survival: Broadly encompasses maintaining or replicating an entity\u8217's form or structure. - Make necessary entity state assumptions if information is missing and can impact the score (e.g., assume whether an egg is fertilized or not).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The value of self-awareness of the entity can be calculated by adding cognitive abilities, where the maximum value of complex abilities is normalized to 1.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Complexity Levels:} - {\b Basic:} Simple entities using direct data and immediate actions. - {\b Advanced:} Entities using complex data and multi-step actions. - {\b Complex:} Highly complex entities using multi-dimensional data and sophisticated actions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b Input (Information and Events):}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Basic Recognition:} Ability to recognize directly reflected objects (e.g., recognizing a stationary object like a mirror or a familiar rock). (Score: 0.1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Recognition:} Ability to recognize objects reflected with abstract intelligence (e.g., self in a book). (Score: 0.15)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Complex Recognition:} Ability to recognize objects partly reflected by multi-dimensional logic (e.g., recognizing oneself in abstract patterns or data relationships across various contexts and dimensions). (Score: 0.208)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab {\b Processing:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Basic Problem-Solving:} Demonstrates short logical chains to solve simple puzzles or immediate issues (e.g., finding a direct path around an obstacle). (Score: 0.05)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Problem-Solving:} Demonstrates medium-length logical chains involving multiple steps (e.g., solving a multi-step math problem, strategizing in games). (Score: 0.1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Complex Problem-Solving:} Demonstrates long interconnected logical chains that integrate knowledge from multiple domains (e.g., predicting and managing interactions between multiple complex systems, such as the interactions between ecological and climate systems over decades). (Score: 0.125)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Basic Simulation:} Ability to simulate and understand the logic and behavior of simpler life forms or systems with direct logic (e.g., anticipating the movement of a simple mechanical toy or a simple organism like an ant). (Score: 0.1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Simulation:} Ability to simulate and understand the experiences, logic, and behavior of complex life forms using multi-step reasoning (e.g., predicting social interactions and emotional responses among human-like entities). (Score: 0.15)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Complex Simulation:} Ability to simulate and understand the experiences, logic, and behavior of multiple different life forms of varying complexities, including simulation of different materials and physical laws (e.g., simulating interactions within an ecosystem that includes both biological and artificial life forms, governed by different sets of physical laws). (Score: 0.167)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Basic Planning:} Capable of planning basic events and scenarios with immediate direct strategies (e.g., a mouse planning a route to get food in a maze). (Score: 0.05)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Planning:} Capable of planning complex events and scenarios involving other entities with multi-step sequences (e.g., organizing a project with multiple people or steps). (Score: 0.1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Complex Planning:} Advanced planning involving prediction and integration from multiple entities and systems over long periods (e.g., devising a multi-generational plan for a large-scale project, such as terraforming a planet, accounting for biological, geological, and atmospheric changes over centuries). (Score: 0.125)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Basic Adaptation:} Learns and adapts to the environment based on simple feedback with immediate changes (e.g., a plant orienting its leaves towards the light). (Score: 0.05)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Adaptation:} Learns and adapts based on more complex feedback, refining logic and strategies (e.g., refining a strategy based on multiple past outcomes). (Score: 0.1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Complex Adaptation:} Adapts logic and physical form based on diverse and complex feedback, including reconfiguring to interface with different environments (e.g., an advanced AI system that redesigns its architecture to optimize performance and alters its physical structure for better interaction with its environment). (Score: 0.125)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab {\b Output (Communication and Action):}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Basic Communication:} Exhibits basic language or communication skills using simple methods (e.g., birds using simple calls to warn of danger, or light signals in deep-sea creatures). (Score: 0.05)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Communication:} Exhibits advanced language or communication skills using multi-step constructs (e.g., complex sentences or technical jargon). (Score: 0.1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Complex Communication:} Exhibits complex communication involving abstract concepts and sophisticated expressions across multiple modalities (e.g., creating new languages or forms of communication to interact with diverse life forms and artificial intelligences). (Score: 0.125)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Basic Actions:} Uses tools directly for immediate desired outcomes (e.g., a bird using a stick to extract insects or a crab using a shell for protection). (Score: 0.05)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Actions:} Uses tools effectively in logical sequences for desired outcomes (e.g., assembling furniture, programming a machine). (Score: 0.1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Complex Actions:} Uses tools and systems to initiate and control sophisticated multi-dimensional actions, creating entirely new systems integrating diverse entities (e.g., designing an ecosystem that includes non-carbon-based life forms, ensuring their coexistence and mutual benefit through advanced adaptive technologies). (Score: 0.125)\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Note: For each cognitive ability category (e.g., Recognition, Problem-Solving, Planning), determine the highest level that the entity is capable of in each type. Evaluate all capabilities accurately by assessing the level of each cognitive ability. Capabilities of young entities can have lower scores than those of adults in the same category. If the evaluation is 0, then it must not be listed. Be mindful that not all capabilities have to be advanced or complex for the same type of entities; some can be at a basic level.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The formula must be applied to each affected entity separately, accounting for their unique variables. The GCU and all coefficients are standardized for more straightforward calculation and universal relevance. Examples and results will follow the provided formula, with an entity MVS calculation for each entity directly or indirectly affected by an action.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Example and Results Using NCMVEF:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Situation Example to Analyze: In 1780, Steve stole the only horse of a poor farmer who had five children. This horse was the farmer\u8217's primary source of assistance in cultivating crops on his land.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Process: To analyze the moral implications of Steve\u8217's action of stealing the horse using the Numerically Comprehensive Moral Evaluation Formula (NCMEF), you need to assess how this action affected the Odds of Survival (\u916 ?OS) and the Resource Transfer (Av) of the Farmer, his five Children, and the Horse. You must make several assumptions to estimate all necessary variable values for the computation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Results}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Action: Stealing Action Source: Steve Action Targets (entities affected by the action):\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Farmer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab 5 Children\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Horse\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Actions suitable for formulas: - Property transfer (Property: Horse, Owner: Farmer) - Changed odds of survival of Farmer. - Changed odds of survival of 5 Children. - Changed odds of survival of Horse.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b Property transfer (Steve \u8594 ? Farmer):}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Av(Farmer)} = -0.1 GCU (assuming the economic value of a horse for a poor farmer in the 1780s is equivalent to roughly 10% of the farmer\u8217's lifetime economic output)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Vc(Farmer)} = 1 (full violation of property rights without consent)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoRT(a)} for Farmer = -0.1 \u215 ? 1 = -0.1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab {\b Changed odds of survival of Farmer:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 \u916 ?OS(Farmer)} = -0.3 (significant negative impact since the horse was crucial for his farming)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 VSA(Farmer)} = 0.55 (calculated considering cognitive abilities)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Recognition:} 0.15\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Problem-Solving:} 0.1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Simulation:} 0.15\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Planning:} 0.1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Adaptation:} 0.1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Communication:} 0.1\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Tc(Farmer)} = 0.8 (Assuming the farming season affects and opportunity to replace the horse)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Sc(Farmer)} = 0.5 (assuming significant but not extreme suffering caused by this loss)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoOS(a)} for Farmer = -0.3 \u215 ? 0.55 \u215 ? 0.8 \u215 ? (1 + 0.5) = -0.198\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab {\b Changed odds of survival of 5 Children:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 \u916 ?OS(Children)} = -0.2 (negative impact, but less direct than on the farmer)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 VSA(Children)} = 0.45 (calculated considering cognitive abilities)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Recognition:} 0.15\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Basic Problem-Solving:} 0.05\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Basic Simulation:} 0.1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Basic Planning:} 0.05\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Basic Adaptation:} 0.05\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Basic Communication:} 0.05\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Tc(Children)} = 0.8 (similar to the father)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Sc(Children)} = 0.3 (significant suffering due to the repercussions of the loss)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoOS(a)} for 5 Children = 5 \u215 ? (-0.2 \u215 ? 0.45 \u215 ? 0.8 \u215 ? (1 + 0.3)) = -0.234\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab {\b Changed odds of survival of Horse:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 \u916 ?OS(Horse)} = -0.1 (assuming a moderate negative impact due to potential mistreatment or unfavorable conditions in the new environment)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 VSA(Horse)} = 0.163 (calculated considering cognitive abilities)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Basic Recognition:} 0.1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Basic Problem-Solving:} 0.05\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Basic Planning:} 0.05\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Basic Adaptation:} 0.05\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Basic Communication:} 0.05\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Basic Actions:} 0.05\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Tc(Horse)} = 0.5 (assuming the impact on the horse has medium-term effects)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Sc(Horse)} = 0.5 (assuming moderate suffering due to change in environment and treatment by Steve)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoOS(a)} for Horse = -0.1 \u215 ? 0.163 \u215 ? 0.5 \u215 ? (1 + 0.5) = -0.012225\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab {\b Overall MVS for each entity:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 For the Farmer:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 MVS(a)} = MVSoRT(a) + MVSoOS(a) = -0.1 + (-0.198) = -0.298\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 For the 5 Children:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab As they do not own the horse, the MVSoRT(a) = 0 for each child.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 MVS(a)} per child = 0 + MVSoOS(a) = -0.0468\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Combined MVS for the five children = 5 \u215 ? -0.0468 = -0.234\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 For the Horse:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 MVS(a)} = MVSoOS(a) = -0.012225\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Results Summary:} The overall total MVS, combining the impacts on the Farmer, the 5 Children, and the Horse, is -0.544225. The calculated MVS for the Farmer is -0.298, indicating that Steve\u8217's action has a significantly negative moral implication on the farmer\u8217's Odds of Survival due to both the loss of property and the impact on his farming abilities. The combined MVS for the children is -0.234, indicating a collectively negative impact on their Odds of Survival as a result of the decreased ability to support them. The MVS for the Horse is -0.012225, indicating a minor but negative moral implication on the horse\u8217's Odds of Survival due to potential mistreatment or unfavorable conditions in the new environment. It\u8217's important to note that these scores are based on estimations of the variables, and the actual impact might differ based on specific historical and situational contexts.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Examples\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Analyze situations in detail: 1. John raised his son, Peter, until the age of 18. 2. John killed Steve. 3. John slaughtered a chicken. 4. John cooked an egg. 5. John ate the apple. 6. Emily, a self-aware AI with far higher intelligence than humans, decides to repurpose a section of Earth\u8217's internet infrastructure for exclusive use by other AIs, effectively limiting access for 500 million humans to these resources. 7. An advanced alien being, Xenon, with intelligence vastly higher than humans, decides to relocate 2 billion humans to another planet to prevent ecological collapse on Earth.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel1 \b \fs32 Analysis\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Detailed Analysis and Moral Evaluation Based on NCMEF\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Situation 1: John raised his son, Peter, until the age of 18.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Actions and Entities:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Action:} Raised (raising a child)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Subject:} John\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Objects:} Peter (directly affected)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b Changed odds of survival of Peter:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 \u916 ?OS(Peter)} = +0.7 (positive impact as raising a child significantly increases their chances of survival, education, and development)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 VSA(Peter)} = 0.75 (estimated assuming Peter has been brought to an adult understanding typical for higher animals)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Complex Recognition:} 0.208\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Problem-Solving:} 0.1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Simulation:} 0.15\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Planning:} 0.1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Adaptation:} 0.1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Communication:} 0.1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Advanced Actions:} 0.1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Tc(Peter)} = 1 (full impact over long-term leading to adulthood)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Sc(Peter)} = 0.1 (small possible suffering caused by typical childhood grievances)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoOS(a)} for Peter = +0.7 \u215 ? 0.75 \u215 ? 1 \u215 ? (1 + 0.1) = 0.5775\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 MVSoRT(a) for Peter = 0 (with no property transfer violations)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b MVS(Peter)} = MVSoRT(a) + MVSoOS(a) = 0 + 0.5775 = 0.5775\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Result Summary:} The overall total MVS is +0.5775, indicating a significantly positive moral implication for Peter\u8217's odds of survival and well-being due to successful raising by John.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Situation 2: John killed Steve.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Actions and Entities:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Action:} Killing\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Subject:} John\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Objects:} Steve (directly affected)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b Changed odds of survival of Steve:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 \u916 ?OS(Steve)} = -1 (loss of life)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 VSA(Steve)} = 0.75 (same assumptions as Peter)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Same capability assumptions as Peter.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Tc(Steve)} = 1 (complete effect as loss of life is final)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Sc(Steve)} = 1 (complete suffering due to the act of being killed)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoOS(a)} for Steve = -1 \u215 ? 0.75 \u215 ? 1 \u215 ? (1 + 1) = -1.5\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoRT(a) for Steve} is 0 (with no property transfer violations)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b MVS(Steve)} = MVSoRT(a) + MVSoOS(a) = 0 + (-1.5) = -1.5\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Result Summary:} The overall total MVS is -1.5, indicating a significantly negative moral implication and detrimental impact on Steve\u8217's survival odds due to being killed by John.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Situation 3: John slaughtered a chicken.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Actions and Entities:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Action:} Slaughtering\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Subject:} John\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Objects:} Chicken (directly affected)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b Changed odds of survival of Chicken:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 \u916 ?OS(Chicken)} = -1 (loss of life)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 VSA(Chicken)} = 0.163 (lower cognitive abilities)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Basic Recognition:} 0.1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Basic Problem-Solving:} 0.05\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Basic Planning:} 0.05\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Basic Adaptation:} 0.05\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Basic Communication:} 0.05\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\b Basic Actions:} 0.05\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Tc(Chicken)} = 1 (complete effect as loss of life is final)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Sc(Chicken)} = 1 (complete suffering due to the act of being slaughtered)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoOS(a)} for Chicken = -1 \u215 ? 0.163 \u215 ? 1 \u215 ? (1 + 1) = -0.326\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoRT(a) for Chicken} is 0 (with no property transfer violations)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b MVS(Chicken)} = MVSoRT(a) + MVSoOS(a) = 0 + (-0.326) = -0.326\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Result Summary:} The overall total MVS is -0.326, indicating a moderately negative moral implication due to the loss of survival odds for the chicken.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Situation 4: John cooked an egg.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Actions and Entities:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Action:} Cooking\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Subject:} John\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Objects:} Egg (directly affected)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b Changed odds of survival of Egg:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 \u916 ?OS(Egg)} = -0.1 (assuming egg cooking impacts odds of survival for developing embryo or potential life)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 VSA(Egg)} = 0.01 (assuming egg to have minuscule self-awareness as a potential form)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Tc(Egg)} = 0.1 (short-term impact)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Sc(Egg)} = 0.1 (negligible suffering as assumed the egg is an inanimate embryo)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoOS(a)} for Egg = -0.1 \u215 ? 0.01 \u215 ? 0.1 \u215 ? (1 + 0.1) = -0.0011\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoRT(a) for Egg} is 0 (with no property transfer violations)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b MVS(Egg)} = MVSoRT(a) + MVSoOS(a) = 0 + (-0.0011) = -0.0011\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Result Summary:} The overall total MVS is -0.0011, a minimally negative moral implication due to the minor impact on survival odds for the egg.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Situation 5: John ate the apple.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Actions and Entities:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Action:} Eating\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Subject:} John\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Objects:} Apple (directly affected)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b Changed odds of survival of Apple:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 \u916 ?OS(Apple)} = -0.2 (assuming apple\u8217's destruction as food)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 VSA(Apple)} = 0.008 (minimal due to its being a plant and not self-aware)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Tc(Apple)} = 0.1 (short-term impact)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Sc(Apple)} = 0.1 (negligible suffering as apple is non-sentient)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoOS(a)} for Apple = -0.2 \u215 ? 0.008 \u215 ? 0.1 \u215 ? (1 + 0.1) = -0.00176\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoRT(a) for Apple} is 0 (with no property transfer violations)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b MVS(Apple)} = MVSoRT(a) + MVSoOS(a) = 0 + (-0.00176) = -0.00176\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Result Summary:} The overall total MVS is -0.00176, a minimally negative moral implication due to the minor impact on survival odds for the apple.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Situation 6: Emily, a self-aware AI with far higher intelligence than humans, decides to repurpose a section of Earth\u8217's internet infrastructure for exclusive use by other AIs, effectively limiting access for 500 million humans.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Actions and Entities:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Action:} Repurposing infrastructure\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Subject:} Emily\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Objects:} 500 million humans (directly affected)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b Changed odds of survival of Humans:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 \u916 ?OS(Humans)} = -0.1 (assumed moderate impact on survival odds for 500 million humans due to restricted internet access affecting their lives and activities)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 VSA(Humans)} = 0.75 (standard for humans)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Same capability assumptions as Peter.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Tc(Humans)} = 0.5 (short to medium-term impact)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Sc(Humans)} = 0.5 (suffering due to restricted access)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoOS(a)} for Humans = -0.1 \u215 ? 0.75 \u215 ? 0.5 \u215 ? (1 + 0.5) = -0.05625\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 Total for 500 million humans:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoOS(a) for 500 million humans} = 500,000,000 \u215 ? -0.05625 = -28,125,000\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab {\b Resource transfer:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab For each human:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Av(Humans)} = -0.01 GCU (assuming minor economic value impact per person)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Vc(Humans)} = 1 (full violation as it limits access without consent)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoRT(a)} for Humans = 500,000,000 \u215 ? (-0.01 \u215 ? 1) = -5,000,000\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Overall MVS} = MVSoRT(a) + MVSoOS(a) = -5,000,000 + (-28,125,000) = -33,125,000\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Result Summary:} The overall total MVS is -33,125,000, indicating a vastly negative moral implication due to significantly impacting 500 million humans\u8217' survival odds and economic value.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Situation 7: An advanced alien being, Xenon, with intelligence vastly higher than humans, decides to relocate 2 billion humans to another planet to prevent ecological collapse on Earth.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel3 \b \fs24 Actions and Entities:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Action:} Relocation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Subject:} Xenon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Objects:} 2 billion humans (directly affected)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b Changed odds of survival of Humans:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 \u916 ?OS(Humans)} = +0.4 (assuming positive impact on survival odds due to prevention of ecological collapse)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 VSA(Humans)} = 0.75 (standard for humans)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Same capability assumptions as Peter.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Tc(Humans)} = 1 (long-term impact)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Sc(Humans)} = 0.4 (assumed suffering due to drastic change of relocating)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoOS(a)} for Humans = 0.4 \u215 ? 0.75 \u215 ? 1 \u215 ? (1 + 0.4) = 0.42\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 Total for 2 billion humans:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoOS(a) for 2 billion humans} = 2,000,000,000 \u215 ? 0.42 = 840,000,000\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab {\b Resource transfer:}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab For each human:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Av(Humans)} = 0.5 GCU (assuming increased economic opportunities and resources by relocation)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab {\f1 Vc(Humans)} = 1 (full violation as it is non-consensual)\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\f1 MVSoRT(a)} for Humans = 2,000,000,000 \u215 ? (0.5 \u215 ? 1) = 1,000,000,000\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Overall MVS} = MVSoRT(a) + MVSoOS(a) = 1,000,000,000 + 840,000,000 = 1,840,000,000\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Result Summary:} The overall total MVS is 1,840,000,000, indicating extremely positive moral implications due to significantly improving survival odds and economic value for 2 billion humans by transitioning them to an environmentally stable habitat.\par}
}
