{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 \fmodern Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Tips\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel0 \b \fs36 Table of Contents\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#how-to-effectively-interact-with-ai"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
How to Effectively Interact with AI
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#practical-ai-mastering-tips"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Practical AI Mastering Tips
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#gpt-4-issues"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
GPT-4 Issues
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#visual-studio"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Visual Studio
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#top-5-practical-tips-to-avoid-being-replaced-by-ai"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Top 5 Practical Tips to Avoid Being Replaced by AI
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "#how-to-apply-these-tips"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
How to Apply These Tips
}}}
\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 We\u8217're living in a time where knowing how to effectively interact with AI is crucial to harnessing its full potential.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Ask the right questions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Give the right hints.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Provide the right data.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Provide the right tools.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Practical AI mastering tips\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Problem}: AI provides subpar solutions or fails to resolve the issue.\line {\b Solution}: Ask AI, \u8220"What specific information or data is needed to fix this problem?\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Problem}: AI stumbles on multi-layered tasks requiring decomposition into manageable steps.\line {\b Solution}: Hint AI, \u8220"Please break down this problem into a series of step-by-step actions.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Problem}: Initial AI-generated responses may sometimes lack depth, precision, or full alignment with user expectations.\line {\b Solution}: Use this prompt after the first answer: \u8220"Revise and improve your response to the prompt.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Problem}: AI lacks understanding of the project\u8217's core or file system layout.\line {\b Solution}: Create WIKI page with project overview, its structure, and aims. Hint AI:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \u8220"Analyze this project documentation at:\u8221" - https://company.com/solution/wiki/home.md - C:.wiki.md\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Problem}: AI develops solutions that don\u8217't align with the environment or project technology stack.\line {\b Solution}: Hint AI:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \u8220"Analyze these resources for a bespoke solution:\u8221" - Solution File: C:.Solution.sln - Project File: C:.Solution.Project.csproj - Coding Standards: C:.editorconfig\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Problem}: AI generates code that\u8217's hard to understand or maintain.\line {\b Solution}: Supply AI with examples of well-documented company code from previous projects. Hint AI:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \u8220"Refer to these examples of clean and well-documented code for crafting your solution:\u8221" - Repository Link: https://company.com/solution/repo/clean-code-examples - Local Directory: C:-code-examples\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Problem}: AI generates code suggestions that do not match the current code.\line {\b Solution}: Provide AI with multiple relevant files.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Hint AI in VS Extension: \u8220"Analyze all open documents.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Hint AI in Application: \u8220"Analyze all of these files:\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab UI: C:.xaml\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Code: C:.xaml.cs\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 GPT-4 Issues\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Problem}: The AI only processes the beginning of the file when the input context is large.\line {\b Solution}: Hint AI, \u8220"Analyze the entire file until the end.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Visual Studio\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Problem}: The AI generates generic and self-explanatory code comments.\line {\b Solution}: To improve the quality of comments, follow these steps:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Enable the {\f1 GetSelection} and {\f1 GetOpenDocuments} functions on the {\f1 [Plugins]\\[VisualStudio]} tab in Visual Studio.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Open the relevant files in Visual Studio.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Select the code block that you want to comment.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Paste the prompt below and click the \u8220"Send\u8221" button.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \f1 Task 1:\line
\line
   Get current selection. Get open documents.\line
\line
Task 2:\line
\line
   a) Analyze the selected code block within the open documents.\line
\line
   b) Determine the business context of the code.\line
\line
   c) Comment directly on the selected code block, focusing on the underlying business logic and its interactions with other system components. Ensure comments are insightful, avoiding the explanation of self-evident technical details. Comments must be clear, succinct, and free of superfluous technical terms.\line
\line
   d) Output the updated selection with the newly added comments.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Note: This request may slow down the response time of the AI and incur higher costs, depending on the size of the relevant files\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \outlinelevel2 \b \fs28 Top 5 Practical Tips to Avoid Being Replaced by AI\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These top 5 tips are designed to be simple, manageable, and practical, ensuring that anyone, regardless of their learning curve, can take actionable steps to stay relevant in an AI-driven world.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab {\b Use AI to Make Your Job Easier:} Find and use easy AI tools to speed up your work, giving you more time for tasks that need human thinking.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Look for tutorial videos or FAQs to learn how to use these tools step-by-step. Start with AI tools relevant to your job.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Look for simple applications like scheduling apps, language translators, or customer support bots. Use online resources such as tutorial videos, step-by-step guides, and community forums to learn how to use these tools.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab {\b Keep Learning Small and Relevant Skills:} Learn new things bit by bit. Focus on skills that are important for your job.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Set aside 15 minutes a day to read articles or watch short videos about changes in your job or industry.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Subscribe to industry newsletters, follow influencers on social media, or use learning platforms that offer short courses.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab {\b Combine AI with Your Interests:} Think about how you can use AI in things you are passionate about, like your hobbies or any special skills.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Try projects that mix AI with what you love doing\u8212-for example, using AI for home design or a personal hobby.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab For example, if you like writing, try AI writing assistants. Explore projects that mix AI with your daily tasks, making them more efficient and fun.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab {\b Set Practical Goals:} Use AI\u8217's speed to set realistic and slightly bigger goals for yourself.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Write down one or two achievable goals per month where you can use AI to help you. Keep track of your progress.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab For example, automate one repetitive task using AI each month. Track your progress using a simple planner or digital tool to see how AI helps improve your productivity.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab {\b Improve Personal Skills AI Can\u8217't Do Well:} Get better at things like talking to people, solving problems, and making good decisions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Practice these skills in everyday situations, like being a team player or thinking of solutions at home or work.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Focus on enhancing skills like empathy, problem-solving, and decision-making through everyday practice. Engage in activities that require these skills, such as group projects, volunteer work, or family problem-solving.\sa180\sa180\par}
}
